Longer description

In our starting scenario, the ring road, you experience how a traffic
jam develops "out of the blue" by so-called traffic-flow
instabilities: whenever a vehicle brakes a little bit, the
follower takes a little time to adapt his or her speed to that of the
leader. During this time, the gap may become smaller than the safety
distance and the follower needs to
brake *even more* to re-obtain it. This starts a "vicious
cycle" eventually leading to a traffic wave propagating backwards.

* play with the density slider to create even more waves at a higher
  density while no breakdown appears at lower densities

* make the drivers more responsive by increasing the "maximum
  acceleration" and observe how the traffic jam disappears. Are there
  some lessions learnt for your own driving style?

* drag and drop an obstacle onto the road and notice how the moving
  traffic wave transforms into a standing one


In contrast to the ring road, the other scenarios are more realistic
open systems with inflow and outflow. There,
you can investigate the "three ingredients to make a (traffic) jam":
High traffic demand, a bottleneck on the road, and a final disturbance
of the flow, e.g., by an abrupt lane change. The scenarios
provide typical examples of bottlenecks: on-ramp, off-ramp,
road-work site, uphill section, and a comination thereof. 

Observe how a traffic jam forms at the bottleneck. You can increase
its formation by clicking several times in the bottleneck zone
creating additional flow disturbances.  Upstream, the
traffic jam will emit traffic waves while downstream, the congested
region is fixed by the begin of the bottleneck. Now imagine you are
one of the drivers approaching the bottleneck (you can mark them by
clicking): The driver encounters several traffic waves
before reaching the bottleneck. Since the driver typically cannot see
the bottleneck when encountering the first wave, he or she might think
that there is a "phantom traffic jam". However, you know better: The
waves are emitted by the congestion at the bottleneck.

Finally, in the last "deviation" scenario, you can play a game. Send
some of the vehicles on the deviation in order to avoid or delay, but
don't do too much. Who can bring all of the vehicles through the simulation
the fastest?

